.TH xjadeo 1 "April 22, 2006"  
.SH NAME
xjadeo \- displays a video clip in sync with an external timing source
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxjadeo\fR [options] [videofile]


xjadeo displays a video clip in sync with an
external timing source. It is a handy tool to help with the
synchronization of the soundtrack of a video file.
xjadeo supports different video file formats, video
output libraries and sync sources.

.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR 
Prints usage help and exits.
.TP 
\fB\-q, \-\-quiet, \-\-silent\fR 
Supresses normal output messages.
.TP 
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR 
Prints additional information during the execution.
.TP 
\fB\-R, \-\-remote\fR 
Enables interactive (stdin/stdout) control mode. Options
\fB\-\-quiet\fR and \fB\-\-verbose\fR have no
effect in remote mode.
.TP 
\fB\-f, \-\-fps \fIn\fB\fR 
Desired refresh rate of the video display in frames per
second. Lower values lighten the CPU load at the cost of video
quality. Admits non\-integer values. Defaults to 10.0 fps.
.TP 
\fB\-k, \-\-keyframes \fR
Instructs the internal algorithm to seek only keyframes.
This option may improve the performance for certain video
encodings.
.TP 
\fB\-o, \-\-offset \fIn\fB\fR 
Offset the video player a certain number of frames
relative to the sync master time base. Admits negative
values.
.TP 
\fB\-x, \-\-vo, \-\-videomode \fIn\fB\fR 
Selects the video output driver. Defaults to 0
(autodetect.) A value of \-1 makes the program list the available
drivers and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-i, \-\-info \fIn\fB\fR 
Displays useful info using the OSD (on\-screen
display.)
.RS 
.TP 
\fB0\fR
Off.
.TP 
\fB1\fR
Frame number.
.TP 
\fB2\fR
SMPTE time code.
.TP 
\fB3\fR
Both frame number and SMPTE.
.RE

The remote interface allows more complete
control over the OSD.
.TP 
\fB\-m, \-\-midi \fIport\fB\fR 
Get sync from MTC (MIDI Time Code) instead of jack.

If compiled with ALSA midi, \fIport\fR is the ALSA
sequencer id of the MTC source. A value of \-1 will leave xjadeo unconnected.

If using portmidi, \fIport\fR 
is the portnumber of the midi input to use. value \-1 will attempt autoconnect.
use \-v \-m \-1 to list midi ports during autodetection.
.TP 
\fB\-M, \-\-midifps \fIn\fB\fR 
Conversion between MTC SMPTE and frame number.
.RS 
.TP 
\fB0\fR
Use MTC clock frame rate.
.TP 
\fB2\fR
Use video file frame rate.
.TP 
\fB3\fR
Resample video frame rate / MTC.
.RE
.TP 
\fB\-t, \-\-try\-codec\fR 
Checks if the video file is encoded in a format suitable
for use with xjadeo and exits. If the video
format is not supported the exit code is 1.
.TP 
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR 
Display usage information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR 
Display version information and exit.
.PP

xjadeo currently supports the following
synchronization sources:

.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Jack transport.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
MTC (MIDI Time Code) via ALSA sequencer.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
MTC (MIDI Time Code) via portmidi.
.PP

xjadeo currently supports the following video
output drivers:

.TP 0.2i
\(bu
xv hardware overlay.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
SDL hardware overlay.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
ImLib.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
GTK.
.PP

xjadeo uses the ffmpeg libraries to decode
video files, so a wide range of codecs is available. Note, however,
that not all the formats support frame seeking. You can use a command
like:


.nf
mencoder \-idx \-ovc lavc \-lavcopts keyint=1 \-nosound input_file.xxx \-o output_file.avi
.fi


This creates from your input\-file.xxx an AVI mpeg4 encoded video
file with no sound, an index (\-idx) and no compression between frames
(every frame is a keyframe). The file thus can become really BIG, so
watch out your disk space.


You may also want to shrink the size of the frame by adding the
option


.nf
\-vf scale=width:height
.fi


This will reduce the size of the avi file, will tax less the
system resources when displayed and will leave more space in the
screen for your audio software.


xjadeo window accepts the following
input:

.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Resizing the window will resize the movie as well. (CAVEAT:
resizing a video frame to make it fit the window is a cpu
expensive operation unless you are using hardware overlay. If you
are not comfortable with the frame size of your movie it is more
cpu efficient that you reencode the video file with the desired
size beforehand.)
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Pressing mouse button 1 will resize the window to the
original movie size.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Mouse button 2 and 3 resize the window to match the movie
aspect ratio.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Scroll Wheel (buttons 4,5) stepwise decreases/increases the
window size maintaining the original aspect ratio.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Closing the window or pressing ctrl\-C will terminate
xjadeo.
.PP

When started in remote mode (option \fB\-R\fR or
\fB\-\-remote\fR) xjadeo will
interactively accept commands and issue responses through its standard
input/output mechanism.


Use the remote command help to get a quick 
overview of all available commands. please refer to the docbook documentation for 
a complete description of the remote commands.

